---
Title: ACL 1993—1994
subtitle: by Karen Spärck Jones
date: "2002-07-02"
---

As an organisation, the ACL has clearly evolved over the forty years since its
foundation. (Whether, or how, it has evolved in its area of intellectual
interest over the same period is a tricky and interesting question.) The ACL's
organisational development in the period up to Don Walker's death in 1993 was,
however, rather different from its evolution since. This was partly because the
ACL's community was not very large in its first two decades, partly because
there were only three Secretary-Treasurers in the whole period from 1963
to 1993. Don Walker's term of office, from 1976-1993, was a particularly
important period in the development of the ACL, and both for these reasons and
because Don had been in post for so long, the two years 1993-1994 -- 1993 when
Don was ill and died, and 1994 when I was President -- were a rough transition
time.

There were very many things to do and, more importantly, to figure out how to
do. The day-to-day operation of the ACL had to be kept going, and at the same
time, administrative and policy changes that Don had initiated had to be carried
through. Some idea of the challenges that the Executive, and especially Fernando
Pereira as President in 1993 and me as President in 1994, had to face can be
gotten from the fact that the ACL office was in the basement of Don and Betty
Walker's house in Morristown (NJ), and that much of the information about ACL
procedures, resources, decisions and strategies was carried in Don's
head. Betty, as an ACL employee, was very fortunately familiar with the manifold
details of ACL's office-driven activities, notably of the way membership,
conferences, and publications were handled. Without Betty's dedicated support,
at a distressing and demanding time for her, the ACL's day-to-day operations
during 1993 and 1994 would never have been kept going. The ACL owes a great debt
to her, and we were glad to be able to be able to present the fine volume of
papers on Current Issues in Computational Linguistics in Honour of Don Walker to
her at the 1994 Conference.

The main, very pressing, tasks for the Executive and especially the two
Presidents in 1993-4 were first, to create a new office; second, to find a new
Secretary-Treasurer; third, to ensure that the 1994 Conference ran smoothly; and
fourth, to determine the state of the ACL's finances and establish them on a
firm footing. The financial situation was very unclear, and the manifest need to
be as prudent as possible about money meant that everything else had to be
treated with extra care.

Don had already begun the process of creating an independent ACL office with an
Office Manager: the Association's growth in size and complexity was making
running it out of his basement impractical; after further negotiations we were
very fortunately able to hire Priscilla Rasmussen as Manager and she began the
administrative takeover during 1994. The search for a new Secretary-Treasurer
was a major effort. Just as for the Office Manager, a whole new job
specification had to be written: it was clear not only that having an Office
Manager would mean that the nature of the Secretary-Treasurer's would change,
but that we could not ask anyone of suitable standing as an active researcher
and/or teacher in the field to take on too burdensome a job. The search was very
time-consuming, and the Executive was delighted when Kathy McKeown, who was
already familiar as a past President with the ACL, accepted our proposal.

The ACL Conference is a major financial commitment, as well as a logistic one,
and Don had always paid close attention to the conference detail in all its
ramifications from catering to proceedings: as well as being significant as an
event for the participating community, it was an important showcase for the ACL
as an organisation, so its image and style mattered. Jan Wiebe did admirably in
the local arrangements at Las Cruces, but dealing with everything that the
conference involved, which included, for example, preparations for concomitant
meetings of the Executive, was a major effort for all the Officers and
Executive: one consequence of my having to monitor absolutely everything in 1994
for its potential financial implications was being asked whether a conference
participant could bring their spouse and 10 year old child to the banquet.

But the most serious task for the Executive, and especially for me, after Don's
death, was understanding the ACL's finances. Though I had had one meeting with
Don about them, finding out what was involved in detail after his death
necessarily took months, which constrained current operations and made planning
for the necessarily different future very difficult. It was clearly essential to
do a very careful financial analysis, and to replace the invisible organisation
carried in Don's head with a much more explicit structure with which the new
Office Manager and Secretary-Treasurer could work. Membership fees were a major
income source, but raising fees is not popular and does not bring money in
quickly. In fact, the Executive was pleased to find it confirmed in 1994 that,
while not rich, the ACL was perfectly viable financially.

There were very many other things to attend to during this period, like clearing
up Don's files, deciding what to do about storage containers full of old
Proceedings, and negotiating publishing contracts, to take three random
examples. All the members of the Executive were assigned tasks ad hoc, for
example Ed Hovy that of gathering all the annual reports to be presented to the
Executive and General Meeting, and those with past experience, like Sandee
Carberry of running conferences, were drafted in as mentors: the ACL could not
have survived without all their work, and without that of Judith Klavans, the
Associate Secretary-Treasurer. At the time when Don became Secretary-Treasurer,
the ACL was a modest organisation, without all the apparatus of full-scale
conference proceedings, chapters and SIGs, or a substantial journal, and without
a significant international presence or world-wide membership, that it had
achieved by 1993. He had fostered the ACL so that it could profit from the
growth of the field, until it had reached the point where, as he himself had
seen, a new adminstrative structure was needed.

The agenda for the Executive meeting in 1994 illustrates, very nicely, this
growth in scale and range of the ACL's activities, with nearly forty items
including the journal Editor's submission and one on CL reviews, reports on
different aspects of the 94 conference and plans for future ones, statements
about five SIGs and about related organisations and meetings, items on
electronic resources, e.g. cmp-lg, and about student affairs.

As this implies, any transition from the old structure to a new one would have
been a substantial undertaking, and that which Don had envisaged would certainly
have required much to be made explicit or formal, that had hitherto been
implicit or informal, for example guidelines for conference workshops, or for
creating SIGs. But in the circumstances of 1993-4, a great deal of this had to
be done, perhaps more than otherwise, and very quickly: I had to assemble, or
write, many documents, ranging from how to cost ACL conferences via revised ACL
constitutions to emergency ACL Meeting resolutions. Equally, Don had initiated
policy changes, for example, about holding ACL conferences outside North
America, which had to be kept moving.

All of this meant that the transition period was pretty bumpy. But the fact that
the ACL has advanced successfully since the mid nineties suggests that Don had
laid a good foundation for the latest phase of the ACL's life, and that the many
people who had to start building walls on this foundation in 1993-4 also did a
good job. There is one other point worth noting about the time too. Email had
become an ever more important administrative tool during Don's time as
Secretary-Treasurer; and there was certainly no way that all of the things that
needed to be done during 1993-4, with the ACL's first non-North American
President and other people spread around the world, could have been done without
email.

Looking more broadly than at the 93-94 transition period, what has been
happening in the last decade since, and what does ACL's future look like?

In the last decade, ACL has restructured itself formally and become more clearly
an international organisation. Don worked towards this, and the formal
reorganisation belatedly reflects the fact that CL and NLP have been
international fields since the beginning (with significant early work in the
USSR for example), and that activity is growing worldwide and can be expected to
go on growing. In Europe, Japan and, increasingly, China people are able to
build, to good effect, on long experience of the field.

The last decade has also seen Language Engineering come of age, so we now have
three overlapping areas, CL, NLP and LE. Practical concerns, in the shape of MT,
were begetters of the field as a whole, and recent developments have supplied
much better tools for applications than before. We can expect the practical
trend to continue, and not all as a one-way flow from CL through NLP to LE: it
is arguable that shallow parsing, especially finite-state, has pushed back the
other way, and tasks like summarising and question answering are stimulating new
attacks on discourse structure and on sentence interpretation. It is much easier
now than in the past to pull together the resources for experiments and
prototypes: this will certainly continue, and for more complex functions and
challenging tasks.

The third feature of the past decade has again been a revival of older ideas, on
statistically-based language processing using corpus data, but now with volumes
of material beyond the sixties' wildest dreams. With the benefit of lessons from
speech recognition and from information processing, this has proved such a
rewarding seam to mine that the digging will certainly continue and, when worked
on by those with good ideas about the kind of jewellery one should aim at, will
deliver some pretty impressive parures.

Speech processing and language processing have been coming together in the last
decade, notably in dialogue work, though ACL still has some way to go to be as
natural a home for speech researchers as for language ones. But the convergence
is bound to get better in future. At the same time, research in the field has
continued to grow away from linguistics as she is spoke in linguistics
departments, and from artificial intelligence. This is a natural consequence of
technical specialisation, though it would be a pity if we found ourselves
cobbling up inferior versions of perfectly good wheels that those in linguistics
or AI have already built.

The ACL has responded, as its conferences and journal show, to the trends of the
last decade. Developments in IT have transformed research in the field. The
growth of the Web has also moved the goal posts for applications. But though
this has shaken up the game, it's not a completely different one, and we still
need good models for it. The ACL has shown that it can successfully embrace both
principles and practice, and can evolve as an organisation in keeping with
changes in the zeitgeist: I trust it will continue to do so.

--- Karen Spärck Jones, ACL President 1994
