---
Title: Twenty More Years of Computational Linguistics
subtitle: by Aravind Joshi
date: "2002-12-07"
---

The title can be read in two ways. Either I should comment on the past twenty
years of ACL (which coincide with the period between ACL 1982 held at Penn and
ACL 2002 also held at Penn) or twenty more years from ACL 2002. As you will see
many of my comments will be relevant to both these interpretations.

How did I get into computational linguistics (CL)? I did not really get into
it. It sort of happened to me, much like Voltaire realizing one day that he was
indeed writing prose. This is simply due to the fact that I started doing what
is now called CL (or natural language processing) well before there was such a
recognized field or a professional society with that name. As a matter of fact
for the first couple of years of ACL (until about early 64) I did not officially
belong to ACL. This was not because I disliked something about ACL or the people
connected with it. Far from it. I knew the people very well and respected
them. In retrospect, I am sure part of my reason for not rushing into it was the
initial name of the current ACL. More importantly, I guess I was not sure myself
that what I was doing was the same as the proclaimed goals of the organization
at the start. I was also not sure that what I was doing at that time was either
part of linguistics or part of computer science, or combination of the two, and
perhaps, therefore, not needing any special name. Of course, once I joined ACL I
threw myself into it in every possible way. However, I believe my initial
experience described above may reflect in some way in my remarks below.

CL from the very beginning was always rooted in some applications. In my own
experience, the very first project I worked on (1958-59), directed by Zellig
Harris, had to do with analyses of scientific papers (in biomedical domain,
strangely enough) with a view to automatically produce abstracts. Little did
anyone working on the project realize how hard the task would be, even the first
step of doing the so-called shallow parsing (as it is called at present) was
very hard. Although the task was well executed (by the use finite state
transducers, the first such application as far as I know) the problem of scaling
up was already evident, given the status of the hardware at that time. At this
point many computational linguists (including me, of course) turned to more
theoretical work, hoping to find a way for attacking the scaling problem. During
the early 60's to almost the mid 80's CL research was flourishing together with
highly productive linguistic research during this period. There was good
interaction between computational linguists and linguists, although most of the
linguists thought, during this period, that they have more to say to the
computational linguists than the other way round. During this period a few
computational linguists (and I certainly include myself in this group) believed
that CL has something new to say to linguists. In other words, the computational
paradigm was not just concerned with implementing the then existing linguistic
theories. However, it was only in the late 80's and early 90's there was a real
blossoming of the computational paradigm as a way of doing linguistics
itself. Many linguists began to be more and more open to CL. Now from the late
90's up to the present, as we all can see, CL is really flourishing. Linguists
are even more open to CL than before. However, curiously enough, many
computational linguists are moving away from linguistics. This is mostly due to
the enormous success of statistical and machine learning techniques applied to
corpora, annotated with very little linguistic information or, especially,
unlabeled data. So we have a strange situation now. Just when linguists are
seriously getting interested in CL, CL seems to be turning away from
linguistics. However, I believe this situation is very likely to change again,
as more and more richly annotated corpora will be created (for example, with
predicate argument and adjunct information, word sense information, discourse
annotations for connectives and their argument structure, dialogue structures,
among others). These efforts necessarily involve more and more linguistic
information. Statistical and machine learning techniques will be developed for
these richly annotated corpora, integrating structural and statistical
information. So in the next two decades we will see CL and linguists coming
close to each other, with CL affecting the very methodology of linguistics (also
psycholinguistics and language aspects of cognitive neuroscience) and not just
providing the tools -- a dream of many of us for a long time.

--- Aravind Joshi
